Hello everyone, we are Wendover Production and thank Squarespace for sponsoring this show
Squarespace helps you easily create beautiful websites
Last time I talked about why the speed of the passenger plane stalled, I focused on the supersonic Concorde
But what I didn’t talk about in the last issue is that even if the operation of Concord is unsuccessful
But it still has a major impact on today’s civil aviation operations
Please allow me to come to the airlines one by one without earning money in economy class
The real profit comes from high-end cabins such as
British Airways flies from London Heathrow Airport to Washington Dulles Airport
The airline's 777 airliner has 224 seats
An economy class ticket from March 15th to 22nd is worth $876
It means that if the economy class is sold out
A round trip economy class total income of 106,872 USD
The same flight's high-end economy class price is 2633 USD
Revenue of cabin is USD 105,320
The 40-seat premium economy class makes more money than the entire economy class
Coming to 48 seats in the business class with a unit price of $6723 can bring in income of $322,704
A total of 14 seats in the first class can bring in income of $8715
So the 14 seats in the front are more profitable than the 122 seats in the back
High-end economic business and first-class three high-end cabins add up
A total of $55,034 in revenue means that 45% of passengers contributed 84% of revenue
I want to draw your attention to
There is no airline in the world that can earn $500,000 by flying a transatlantic route
Otherwise, you have to count your money
The reason for the high price of this route is
This is a direct flight between popular cities in two high-income countries
Of course, most passengers fly cheaper connecting routes
For example, if you depart from Stockholm and take the British Airways 777 to London via London
Economy class drops to US$392 high-end economy US$1150
The official business is $3025 first-class $5564 but the income share is basically the same
The bulk of income still comes from a small number of passengers
This British Airways 777 aircraft cabin layout is more focused on high-end cabins
Because British Airways mainly do high-end travel
Even so, two-thirds of airlines’ revenues come mainly from three high-end segments
But this is not always the case when civil aviation is still in its infancy
There is no difference in cabin class, all seats are high-end seats
It’s not that the plane at that time was very luxurious.
It’s that flying is so expensive
Just like Virgin Galactic’s space sightseeing trips are not divided by cabin
Because space itself is already a luxury experience
If one day of space travel civilians subdivision will definitely appear
But until one mode of transportation can be reduced to the price range acceptable to ordinary people
It's a first-class round-trip flight from New York to London in the 1950s
Valued at $675, adjusted for inflation, approximately $6800
Similar to today's first-class price
The people in the front row have changed almost before and now, but the passengers in the back row
The history of the development of aviation classes is not how airlines upgrade their cabin class
It’s that they reduce costs so that more and more people can travel by plane
At the same time, this is also an intuitive embodiment of economic theory
Airlines sell the same product to different people at different prices
No matter what class of airline you provide,
The transportation service from point A to point B is different from the experience during transportation
Air travel first appeared in the 40s and 50s
A considerable proportion of airline revenue comes from the U.S. Postal Service’s airmail business
These are usually red-eye flights that fly overnight and stop at many places
Although it is mainly for mail transportation, these aircraft also retain some passengers
For example, the price of first class can buy direct flights from New York to Chicago
In Economy Class, you can only depart from Pittsburgh and Cleveland at 2:00
Although the price is cheaper, the flight time is longer
But the experience on the plane is basically the same
It was not until 1952 that airlines began to charge different fares on the same flight
For example, a airline company's New York and London route standard ticket is 395 US dollars, and a tourist ticket is 270 US dollars.
Flights and planes are the same and the only difference is the ticket
Travel tickets must be purchased in advance and cannot be returned
You have to take the flight so the name suggests
Travel tickets are aimed at tourists. Travelers usually make travel plans in advance
They will take the planned flight so time flexibility is not important
Full-price standard tickets are designed for business travelers
Business travelers generally don’t have to buy their own tickets, they are paid by the company
So they are not sensitive to the fare
Business travel usually requires flexible time, they often buy tickets at the last minute
Common situation is to buy tickets at the counter one hour before departure
Full-price tickets are designed to pass the fare for this situation
Aviation Division divided the market into two parts according to people's willingness to pay
This is the only difference pricing mechanism for the next ten years
Then three major events happened between 1969 and 1978
Boeing 747 makes first flight to Concorde
Civil aviation industry reforms allow airlines to use 747 space and Concord gimmicks to test high-end travel
Previous civil aviation fares were subject to government regulation
It is difficult for airlines to price by cabin
Airlines can freely set prices after deregulation
But at first, the difference is that some airlines will be more comfortable in the first class
Because more and more business people turn to buy travel tickets
Airline companies began to realize that it is necessary to improve the experience of business people who buy full-price tickets
Distinguish them from those who buy discounted tickets
At first it was just a simple break
Full-price tickets first, discount tickets next
Then some airlines will remove the middle seat
Finally, the airline company installed luxury seats and interiors
Except for individual ones, most airlines do not have first class
They focus on the mid-range passenger Concorde will become the choice of wealthy people travel
Ordinary airliners serve ordinary people
At least they thought so at first. I said in the last video
Concorde finally failed tragically
Those who canceled first-class airlines because of Concord started
Slowly resume first class in subsonic aircraft but until today
Only six airlines flying transatlantic routes have set up first class
Facing the Concorde competition in the sixties and seventies
Airlines have made great efforts to optimize business class
If there is no such breakthrough innovation in aviation technology
But the new trend is that the first class is slowly disappearing again
This is the seat map of Etihad Airways A380
Land per capita in economy class 0.35m² Land per capita in business class 0.94m²
First class per capita 3.25m²
Economy round trip fare from Abu Dhabi to New York is USD 1253
Business Class USD 6140 First Class USD 14128 means
Economy Class land price US$332 per square foot Business Class land price US$605 per square foot
First-class land price of $403 per square foot crowded economy class seats
Very different from the business class seats that can lie flat
But the difference between first class and business class is more spacious and more refined catering
It is difficult for airlines to convince passengers to take first class because the experience is basically the same
The cost of operating first class is significantly higher
So more and more airlines choose to cancel first class
Use more profitable business class to replace flights where only airlines have tried business class
But no airline has so much high-end demand to fill up seats
So passengers in Economy Class are only used by airlines to fill up their seats
Square Space ads use discount code Wendover to get a 10% discount
Please support us on Patreon
Follow us on Twitter
You can participate in interactive discussions on Reddit
Please click to subscribe
Thanks for watching